ladee their internet Big Woods Bo again
so the other day on Twitter I saw this
comment and it basically said you know
the sad part is that we only ever really
learn about these cultures once
something bad happens to them person was
talking about at-risk cultures man he's
right he's right and that's part of the
problem we only learn about it once
something bad happens to him which means
in order to get people to care we have
to tell them who they are first and that
takes time and meanwhile that bad thing
is still happening he's right
it's a big problem so let's fix it so
tonight we're going to talk about some
parallels that exist between China and
the United States that some people may
not know about and we're going to see
how technology can become a trap
a literal trap and to highlight this we
are going to talk about the Weger if you
don't know who they are
I promise you've seen headlines it's
like you i GH you are now they live in
an area of China called sanjiang
literally translated that means a new
frontier it's called that because in the
1800's the Han started settling it under
the Qin Dynasty and the parallels
between what was happening then and what
was happening in the United States at
the same time they're pretty striking it
was pretty much the same thing go west
young man and when you get out there
well you run into this bizarre strange
culture people that aren't like you so
of course what do you do well you have
to civilize them right
and that's what happened now the we
Gersh for their part they've been there
pretty much forever they're descendants
from the traders that Marco Polo saw on
his journey and because they're on this
transcontinental trade route you get to
see something unique in that part of the
world when you're walking through those
towns blond hair blue eyes green eyes
stuff like that it's kind of hard now in
1933 they set up their own country it
was called the Republic of East
Turkestan it did not last long
when the Communists took over in 1949
well that pretty much that was it
it became part of China now as far as
religion they practice a version of
Islam it's not really a version of Islam
it's Sufism it adds a mystical component
I've heard people describe it as Islam
with extra credit now because a lot of
these traditions and these rituals are
newer the fundamentalists don't really
like it that much and we'll just leave
it at that
now this region that they're in it's a
well rich of course it is wise wouldn't
matter right they are technically in
what is called an autonomous zone but it
is being rapidly settled by the Han
which is the ethnic minority white
people in the US this whole time the
relationship between the Uighur and
Beijing has been uncomfortable to put it
mildly and then well a couple dozen
Weger were discovered at a training camp
in Afghanistan and that certainly caught
Beijing's attention now to be fair prior
to this there had been some riots and
some bombings in the ninth
in the 1990s and early 2000s that led to
a security clampdown a pretty massive
one now
Beijing of course cast this as them
being the benevolent civilizer
they did what all benevolent civilizer
z-- do they subjugated them they
relocated them and they brought in their
own people in this case by the millions
and this happened in the 1990s and 2000
Seng and the hon that were moved in
almost all of them worked in oil and
natural gas extraction so there was a
monetary motive as well then this thing
that didn't really seem like a big deal
at the time happened the we got 3G 3G
cell service I got some work phones and
mass surveillance came with it Beijing
was worried about extrema fication and
that was in 2011 by 2016 they were
gathering DNA scanning faces getting
voiced friends conducting stop and frisk
and you had to open up your cell phone
they mapped people's relationships their
social networks everything became a
massive data collection operation they
interviewed millions of people to
determine who was good which ones were
the good ones who was trustworthy to do
this they brought in 90,000 cops
almost all of which were harmed who view
the weaker as primitive they also
brought in about a million other
government employees now
that was 2016 where we at today camps
about a million adults in camps China is
currently calling them vocational
centers prior to them being outed by
journalists they just denied it when it
was just rumors they're like how these
things don't exist but now they admit
they do but it they're casting is kind
of voluntary which is not true
journalists have been allowed to go to
some of the camps but it is very staged
it is ridiculous it's more stage than
that show Border Patrol put on it's
obviously faked so we're talking about
10% of the adult population a million
people what about the kids
well of course they're in government-run
schools with Honda administrators they
are taught Chinese culture rather than
Weger they don't learn Arabic script
which is how their people typically
write they're erasing the culture
they're erasing the ethnicity there's a
word for that so it definitely parallels
the native experience in the United
States the other thing I think people
should notice is how quickly that
progression happened 2011 they got 3G
mass surveillance started eight years
later there's camps it's really quick
really quick so that's a little brief
primer on who they are and I got a
feeling they may become the next calls
of the day where everybody gasps it's
something that happened so when and if
it does at least you'll know who they
are eight years
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night